Caption: um our next speaker is Megan pusey she's
Caption: here to talk about what video games have
Caption: taught me about designing for motivation
Caption: Megan is a PhD candidate at Murdoch
Caption: University researching video games
Caption: motivation and resilience
Caption: and she's here to tell us about what
Caption: video games have taught her about
Caption: designing for motivation so please give
Caption: her a hand
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: thank you all for coming obviously a
Caption: quick thank you to our sponsors without
Caption: which DDD couldn't happen I'm also
Caption: working at IBM so I have to do the
Caption: obligatory this is my personal views not
Caption: that representing where I work because I
Caption: have now just finished up at Murdoch
Caption: which is exciting so for those of you
Caption: who don't know me my name is Megan I
Caption: just finished a PhD in games user
Caption: research now doing user research at IBM
Caption: for enterprise software
Caption: uh previously worked as a physics
Caption: teacher and a science Communicator for
Caption: places like scitec
Caption: and so I have a bit of a varied
Caption: background
Caption: hence my that is why my Twitter handle
Caption: is the way it is
Caption: I wanted to start the talk with a little
Caption: thought experiment if I had a very
Caption: thickly
Caption: slathered piece of Vegemite toast not my
Caption: ideal ratio of Vegemite to bread or
Caption: toast uh hands up just a show of hands
Caption: how many people would be quite happy to
Caption: come and eat this lovely piece of
Caption: Vegemite toast ah quite a few keep your
Caption: hands up what about if I now offered you
Caption: five dollars to come and eat this piece
Caption: of Vegemite toast anyone willing for
Caption: five dollars what about
Caption: fifty dollars
Caption: okay a few more 200 there's a few people
Caption: still with their hands down but I'm sure
Caption: you have a price in mind to you know
Caption: withstand the very polarizing Taste of
Caption: Vegemite
Caption: um
Caption: I wanted to use this as an example
Caption: because it's a really good love hate
Caption: relationship
Caption: and some people are more than happy to
Caption: eat Vegemite for fun others need a bit
Caption: of a different type of motivation
Caption: so things we do for fun we have internal
Caption: or intrinsic motivation things that we
Caption: might not do for fun maybe we need a bit
Caption: of reward like money
Caption: uh that we call external or extrinsic
Caption: motivation and we'll come back to those
Caption: shortly so
Caption: video games
Caption: as a product or an industry is made for
Caption: leisure and as a hobby so they have to
Caption: be designed around intrinsic motivation
Caption: and for fun so good ux or a good player
Caption: experience is really core to the game as
Caption: a product and doing well
Caption: however
Caption: coming into
Caption: enterprise software or websites or apps
Caption: sometimes good ux is a
Caption: nice to have that's added on at the end
Caption: and not the primary core of the
Caption: experience
Caption: but also to be fair we use them
Caption: differently they're more like a tool we
Caption: use to get a job done they're not
Caption: necessarily there for leisure
Caption: so
Caption: comparing the two
Caption: one being mostly intrinsic motivation
Caption: and one being we see extrinsic
Caption: motivation how could we learn some
Caption: lessons from the world of video games
Caption: and apply them to Enterprise software or
Caption: websites or apps and I'll just pause
Caption: here to say I'm not going to be talking
Caption: about gamification in turning these
Caption: tools into games but more about how
Caption: could we tweak them
Caption: um to be more intrinsically motivating
Caption: so one of the series that I've done a
Caption: lot of work in and I won't bore you with
Caption: it but basically the theory says that
Caption: intrinsic motivation is made of three
Caption: elements so there's autonomy which is a
Caption: fancy way of seeing you have choice and
Caption: control over things
Caption: competence which means you feel skilled
Caption: at doing a particular activity or your
Caption: skill is improving you don't have to be
Caption: a master
Caption: at the activity and relatedness which is
Caption: filling a connection to other people or
Caption: a community of people so these three
Caption: things combining together help make
Caption: stuff really intrinsically motivating
Caption: and fun to do
Caption: uh you know being a now being working in
Caption: design love a good how might we
Caption: statement so having worked at IBM for a
Caption: bit now I thought well how might we as a
Caption: fun challenge design enterprise software
Caption: to be more intrinsically motivating to
Caption: use again without turning it into a game
Caption: because it is meant to be a tool
Caption: starting with our first element of
Caption: autonomy gains usually do this really
Caption: well one good example of this is from
Caption: competitive first person shooter games
Caption: usually this is a screenshot from a
Caption: fortnight menu where the game is
Caption: allowing you to completely remap your
Caption: controller you have complete control
Caption: over which button does what
Caption: so you can
Caption: make it to your liking not all games do
Caption: this but the competitive games usually
Caption: have do this a bit better than others
Caption: uh and a good example from other
Caption: software that give you good choice and
Caption: control
Caption: is the Adobe suite you can completely
Caption: move the menus around change which icons
Caption: are in your menu I'm left-handed so if I
Caption: was to do any drawing on a touch screen
Caption: I'd move all the menus to the right hand
Caption: side and it enables me to do that
Caption: not all software does so that's one good
Caption: example of referring choice and control
Caption: in a non-game scenario
Caption: another great one is slack and a lot of
Caption: other
Caption: software has a light and a dark mode
Caption: slack goes a little bit further with the
Caption: different color modes
Caption: and if you actually scroll all the way
Caption: to the bottom
Caption: Dawn mentioned this in her accessibility
Caption: talk this morning as well
Caption: but there are actually a few color
Caption: schemes specifically designed for people
Caption: with different types of color blindness
Caption: and offering choice and control over
Caption: things that might seem like a really
Caption: small deal to you can have a really
Caption: great added benefit of improving
Caption: accessibility for some of your other
Caption: users that you might not even recognize
Caption: when you first add this feature in
Caption: moving on to our second strand which is
Caption: competence uh lots of video games
Caption: do this really well as well because they
Caption: essentially have to teach you how to use
Caption: the game while you're in the game
Caption: um
Caption: one of my favorite games that I've done
Caption: used in my research which was really fun
Caption: is called Untitled Goose game the
Caption: premise is that you or I are a
Caption: mysterious Goose running around in
Caption: English Village causing Mayhem so in
Caption: each section of the village you get a
Caption: to-do list and as you complete the to-do
Caption: list it crosses off
Caption: that action and different tasks are more
Caption: difficult than others
Caption: so when you go shopping if you put the
Caption: toothbrush in the basket it will cross
Caption: off the just the word toothbrush
Caption: and if the toothbrush somehow comes out
Caption: of the basket it uncrosses off as well
Caption: so it's like reactive
Caption: um
Caption: so games do Quest logs missions and
Caption: checklists like this really really
Caption: really well
Caption: and you feel a sense of progress like
Caption: you've achieved something also really
Caption: handy like me if you haven't played the
Caption: game you forget about it and come back
Caption: six months later and you can't remember
Caption: what you're up to these Quest logs and
Caption: checklists can help you get oh that's
Caption: right I was trying to steal shopping
Caption: items from this poor shopkeeper
Caption: and
Caption: one online course I was doing recently
Caption: through the interaction design
Caption: Foundation I thought did this really
Caption: well uh in their website or their
Caption: courses followed it sort of layout so on
Caption: the left here we've got their clear
Caption: progression of chapters or lessons
Caption: within each lesson we've got sub parts
Caption: and as you complete them you get a nice
Caption: green tick and as you earn points by
Caption: answering questions throughout the
Caption: course the Blue Points sort of float up
Caption: to the progress bar up the top there so
Caption: you can clearly see how much you've got
Caption: left to go until you get the little
Caption: course certificate so it's a nice visual
Caption: reminder of the progress you've made so
Caption: far and as you get closer and closer to
Caption: the end it becomes even more and more
Caption: motivating because you're like oh just a
Caption: few more points and I'm finished
Caption: and so yeah they're on the left
Caption: um other places do this really well I
Caption: liked the salonist example but you I
Caption: noticed udemy also does this really well
Caption: they'll have a Time indicator next to
Caption: each step or segment especially if it's
Caption: video based and that gives you a good
Caption: indication of how difficult or how long
Caption: the task is going to take so I know for
Caption: me if I only have a half hour or so I'm
Caption: not going to start anything too
Caption: complicated because I'm not going to get
Caption: it finished and by offering these sort
Caption: of indicators of difficulty or time
Caption: you can make a good judgment about
Caption: whether you want to start that activity
Caption: now or not
Caption: a bad example
Caption: as a researcher I like doing other
Caption: people's surveys to see what they've
Caption: done at a professional interest I had an
Caption: Etsy survey pop up as I was browsing you
Caption: can see I was browsing Pokemon plush toy
Caption: thingos
Caption: so I pressed sure I'll do your annoying
Caption: pop-up survey and this was the first
Caption: question but immediately I kind of
Caption: noticed well I was in the middle of
Caption: doing something
Caption: I'm doing you a favor and you're not
Caption: telling me how long this is going to
Caption: take
Caption: no indication of progress and I've used
Caption: qualtrics before same with Microsoft
Caption: forms and I'm sure many of the other
Caption: ones there is always an option there to
Caption: enable the progress bar
Caption: which just puts a little bar at the top
Caption: of the bottom to show you a percentage
Caption: of how far through the survey you are
Caption: just a small thing like that
Caption: can help motivate people to complete the
Caption: task same with retail websites and
Caption: shopping checkout baskets you'll often
Caption: see the steps
Caption: listed or how close you are to finishing
Caption: that purchase so about two or three
Caption: questions in in my head and going I want
Caption: to get back to what I was doing how much
Caption: longer have I got left to go I want to
Caption: quit this and just keep doing what I was
Caption: doing
Caption: I was just curious so I kept going and
Caption: it was about five quick questions but I
Caption: could see I imagine on the back end it'd
Caption: be quite a lot of churn or a lot of
Caption: people dropping out after that second
Caption: question because there's no indication
Caption: of how long this thing is going for
Caption: and our third stream which is uh an
Caption: interesting one because we're talking
Caption: about connection to other people and
Caption: building community and immediately
Caption: people think about that as being real
Caption: time or multiplayer in the game sense
Caption: but it doesn't have to be so I will
Caption: start with a multiplayer game because
Caption: that's the obvious uh I guess
Caption: friendship building or breaking activity
Caption: in video games one of my favorite genres
Caption: is called couch Co-op this is one
Caption: example called overcooked where you're
Caption: working as a team of four to finish
Caption: these orders in this level they're
Caption: making burgers and usually the levels
Caption: are set out in such a way that only
Caption: certain people can do certain steps of
Caption: the process so like a team where you've
Caption: got a Dev and a designer and you can
Caption: only no one person can do everything so
Caption: you're having to yell at one and cook
Caption: the steak what are you doing
Caption: and pass me the tomatoes where's this
Caption: where's it yeah so there's a lot of
Caption: yelling uh but it's really fun and
Caption: you're working in this game you're
Caption: working to a clock uh so you have to do
Caption: as many as possible in the time limit uh
Caption: to pass the level so I find them really
Caption: fun other people find them really
Caption: stressful
Caption: um but that designing the levels in such
Caption: a way that one person cannot do the
Caption: level alone
Caption: helps build that
Caption: um teamwork and one tool I've been using
Caption: a lot of recently that I think has a lot
Caption: of features to make real-time
Caption: collaboration online really good and
Caption: there's lots of tools like this one this
Caption: isn't the only one is mural it's like an
Caption: online whiteboard where you can put fake
Caption: digital sticky notes on there
Caption: some of the features I like is that when
Caption: you're all on the same mural you can see
Caption: everyone's pointers it has their name
Caption: next to it so you can clearly see where
Caption: everyone is and what they're doing if
Caption: you're a facilitator you have
Caption: facilitated superpowers you can summon
Caption: everyone to view what you're viewing on
Caption: the screen
Caption: you can lock things down so other people
Caption: can't move and mess with your templates
Caption: when you're doing brainstorming and so
Caption: it has a lot of really really nice
Caption: features to enable you to do that
Caption: real-time stuff together really really
Caption: well and
Caption: again linking back to choice and control
Caption: a lot of these features you can turn on
Caption: and off if you made the mural yourself
Caption: so often a lot of clients I'm working
Caption: with are not have never used this tool
Caption: before so we lock down a lot of things
Caption: so they can't mess with it and
Caption: um
Caption: yeah get them to follow our screen and
Caption: guide them through the process so those
Caption: features are really good for that
Caption: another example of communication in
Caption: games again this is a competitive
Caption: first person sort of game but it's a
Caption: team game so you're working on a team of
Caption: five or six and a few other games also
Caption: do this really well but I just couldn't
Caption: find a good screenshot to show it so
Caption: Apex Legends probably does this the best
Caption: is called a ping system where
Caption: very quickly you have to communicate
Caption: information to very important
Caption: information to your team so on your
Caption: controller or keyboard you can press a
Caption: button and there's just a standard menu
Caption: of things and you can customize this
Caption: menu as well but these are the most
Caption: common messages you want to share with
Caption: your team and you can ping a particular
Caption: location on the map and your whole team
Caption: can then see that piece of information
Caption: very quickly it's quicker than trying to
Caption: type or say it over voice
Caption: often and if you've watched any Esports
Caption: they will use a ping system quite a lot
Caption: and they'll be very short and sharp with
Caption: their verbal communication
Caption: um the closest I could think of
Caption: like this but not in games was probably
Caption: the whole reaction thing in social media
Caption: and in in places like LinkedIn it allows
Caption: you to show support or show a sense of
Caption: community quickly without having to put
Caption: effort into it so you're like hey yeah
Caption: well done yay DDD I'm excited without
Caption: having to spend the time typing that
Caption: message in
Caption: uh one interesting example that I like
Caption: bringing up a lot from video games is
Caption: it's more asynchronous
Caption: is Sky which is a great game you can get
Caption: on tablets in the switch
Caption: um you run around it's single player and
Caption: the Dark Souls games do this as well you
Caption: can leave a particular item in the world
Caption: and attach a message to that item and
Caption: other players can then go and discover
Caption: that item and read your message
Caption: sometimes in Dark Souls players will
Caption: leave clues about how to defeat next
Caption: boss or watch out for particular traps
Caption: sometimes it's jokes sometimes it's fake
Caption: information to make you go and die in a
Caption: particular place Sky's a bit more nice
Caption: as a game it's not Dark Souls is pretty
Caption: punishing
Caption: but it's this way that they build a
Caption: sense of community and connection
Caption: without it being real time
Caption: and it's a single player game often we
Caption: think of single player experiences as
Caption: not being social whereas this is a very
Caption: very social single player game
Caption: I couldn't
Caption: really it took me a while to think of an
Caption: example from non-games but I do remember
Caption: in having done some writing
Caption: um for a website called particle they
Caption: used a service called gather content and
Caption: essentially but I mean shared documents
Caption: do this as well it was really easy for
Caption: people to leave comments on my article
Caption: asynchronously I could log in and then
Caption: see what they had written and then go
Caption: and make the relevant edits or changes
Caption: that were requested same with shared
Caption: Google Docs or online you know Office
Caption: 365 documents it's I think this one is I
Caption: see it being used more and more it's a
Caption: great way to asynchronously work
Caption: together on something without
Caption: doing the track changes in word which I
Caption: find very painful
Caption: um so gather content is a great example
Caption: of that as well as just general shared
Caption: collaborative documents
Caption: I did want to spend two seconds quickly
Caption: talking about competitive Elements which
Caption: often come up when people start talking
Caption: about gamification so back to the
Caption: interaction design Foundation screen
Caption: they do have a ranking of your score and
Caption: I think if you get the max score for the
Caption: course you can have multiple people
Caption: sitting at first
Caption: um
Caption: and it goes up as you get more points
Caption: and the best I've seen competitive done
Caption: I guess in a
Caption: gamey kind of sense is in a non-game
Caption: game is Duolingo which is for learning
Caption: languages
Caption: what I liked about Duolingo is that
Caption: competitive things can be really
Caption: demotivating if you're losing and
Caption: especially if you have no way to get
Caption: back to the top to get back to winning
Caption: so the way that duo lingo combat this is
Caption: you get a lot of points just by
Caption: participating number one great just for
Caption: trying and you can see that there's a
Caption: limit on the leaderboard so I don't know
Caption: what the time refresh time is maybe it's
Caption: every week
Caption: every week they'll refresh and restart
Caption: the leaderboards from scratch so even if
Caption: you were losing one week
Caption: next week you're in with a whole nother
Caption: shot so it's a lot more motivating to
Caption: have that refreshing leaderboard and
Caption: that ability to get back
Caption: to be potentially winning so I think use
Caption: competitive or look at competitive
Caption: elements with a real grain of salt
Caption: because I think you always need to
Caption: consider the losers how is it going to
Caption: feel to be the loser is if there's low
Caption: stakes that's better if there's high
Caption: stakes it really sucks to be the loser
Caption: is there any way for them to come back
Caption: from losing or think about those things
Caption: as well not just the winners motivation
Caption: is really tricky when you start making
Caption: it competitive versus collaborative
Caption: that was all I had time for today thank
Caption: you so much for choosing to come to my
Caption: session I know there was many amazing
Caption: talks on at this same time I don't have
Caption: any time for questions now but I'm happy
Caption: to answer any questions that afternoon
Caption: tea or you can just uh tweet me and I'll
Caption: hopefully respond and yeah happy to chat
Caption: but thank you for coming
Caption: [Applause]